You should mainly work on the first project phase (i.e., exploratory data analysis) during this lab session and consult it with your teacher. Do not forget that the first phase is due for submission to the AIS system by **Sunday, 3rd November, 2019, 23:59**.

We also prepared the following exercises on statistical hypotheses testing.

# Statistical hypotheses testing

## Exercise 1

Go through a [tutorial](05-1_tutorial-cars.ipynb) on statistical hypotheses testing in Python, which shows how to test whether the number of cylinders of an engine has an impact on the fuel consumption. After you work through the tutorial, you should solve the following two tasks:

a. Test whether the difference in fuel consumption between 4 and 6 cylinder engines is significant.

b. Test whether the difference in fuel consumption between 4 and 5 cylinder engines is significant.

## Exercise 2

The atheletic team of STU prepares for Universiade. The sprinters' coach tests a new training method. Before he started using it, the runners had the following times in seconds: `12.9, 13.5, 12.8, 15.6, 17.2, 19.2, 12.6, 15.3, 14.4, 11.3`. After the first training with the new method, they had the following times: `12.0, 12.2, 11.2, 13.0, 15.0, 15.8, 12.2, 13.4, 12.9, 11.0`. The coach wants to evaluate, whether the new method helped, i.e., whether the average time is now lower than before.

*Hint: The samples are not independent in this case. For each runner, we have two measurements (before and after the new training method was deployed).*

## Exercise 3

A farmaceutical company tests a new medicine to help children with asthma. On a sample of 10 children, they carried out an experiment: 5 randomly selected children used the medicine and 5 others used placebo. During one week, the number of problems with breathing were observed. They got the following measurements: Placebo: `{7, 5, 6, 4, 12}`. The new medicine: `{3, 6, 3, 2, 1}`. Does the new medicine help compared to the placebo?