# Exploratory analysis and data visualization

Work on tasks 1 and 2 with the help of data visualization tutorial: https://github.com/zerodayexploit/IAU 

Leave task 3 (tutorials on exploratory analysis in Python) for home. By the end of this lab exercise, you should have a pair for the project. Should you have any problem finding one (e.g., it can happen that there is uneven number of students), consult with your lab teacher.


## 1. Analysis of data on obesity in the world population
https://ourworldindata.org/obesity

1. Get the obesity data in the CSV format from the source above or download it [here](data/share-of-adults-defined-as-obese.csv). We are interested in the proportion of obese people in the whole population.
2. Load and print the data using `pandas`.
3. Select data for *Europe*.
4. Plot the proportion of obese population in time using either `matplotlib` or `seaborn`.
5. Add to this graph a trending line using a linear regression (*hint:* use function `linregress` from `scipy.stats`).
6. Analyze the formula of the resulting regression line in the form `y=ax+b`. What will be (based on this simple model) the proportion of obese population in the far future (e.g., in 2300)?


## 2. Analysis of countries data
https://www.kaggle.com/fernandol/countries-of-the-world

1. Download the countries data in the CSV format from the link above or [here](data/countries-of-the-world.csv). Pay attention to the correct data format (e.g., decimal point delimiter, white spaces in the strings, etc.). If neccessary, fix the format (transform the data).
2. Check whether there are any missing data.
3. Analyze `GDP ($ per capita)` distribution with respect to the world regions; use boxplot. How many countries are there in the regions? What is the rank of Slovakia (based on the GDP per capita) in the descending order of wealth (i.e., from the richest to the poorest country)? What percentage of the European countries' mean is the Slovak GDP per capita?
4. Compare the rate of literacy between the countries of Eastern and Western Europe. Which country has the lowest and the highest literacy rate? Is it possible to say (based on the data and the visualizations) whether the difference in the literacy bewtween Eastern and Western Europe is significant?
5. Analyze the population density in the countries of Europe. Are there any outliers (very high or very low values)? Consider what you would do with such values. What is their impact on the mean of the population density in Europe? Visualize the population density using boxplot, histogram and bar chart. In the bar chart, color the countries based on whether they are in Eastern or Western Europe. What are the (dis)advantages of these plot types? In other words when would you use which?
6. Analyze the relationships between numerical attributes in the data. Use `pairplot` from the `seaborn` library. Look more closely at the correlation between `GDP ($ per capita)` and `Birthrate` and at the correlation between the number of `Phones (per 1000)`) and the `Birthrate`. How can we interpret it?

## 3. Who will survive?
Compare two tutorials on analysis of Titanic data (focus on the exploratory analysis part only):
- https://www.kaggle.com/startupsci/titanic-data-science-solutions
- https://github.com/donnemartin/data-science-ipython-notebooks/blob/master/kaggle/titanic.ipynb

Note the level of detail in the accompanying text - it does not only describe observations, but also decisions for the next steps of the data analysis and knowledge discovery.